Intraindividual neuropsychological test variability in healthy individuals with high average intelligence and educational attainment.
Knowledge of patterns of neuropsychological performance among normal, healthy individuals is integral to the practice of clinical neuropsychology, because clinicians may not always account for intraindividual variability (IIV) before coming to diagnostic conclusions. The IIV was assessed among a sample of 46 healthy individuals with high average intelligence and educational attainment, utilizing a battery of neuropsychological tests, including the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) and Wechsler Memory Scale, Fourth Edition (WMS-IV). The data indicated substantial variability in neurocognitive abilities. All participants were found to demonstrate scores considered impaired by at least 2 standard deviations (SDs). Despite adjusting for outliers, no participant produced a "normal" testing profile with an intraindividual maximum discrepancy (MD) of less than 1 SD in either direction. When WAIS-IV Full Scale IQ (FSIQ) was considered, participants generally demonstrated cognitive test scores ranging from 2 SDs less than to 1.5 SDs greater than their FSIQ. Furthermore, after demographic corrections, the majority (59%) of participants demonstrated at least 1 impaired cognitive test score, as defined by being 1 to 1.5 SDs below the mean. Overall, results substantiate the need for clinicians to consider FSIQ and educational attainment in interpretation of neuropsychological testing results, given the relevant commonality of "abnormal" test scores within this population. This may ultimately reduce the likelihood of making false-positive conclusions of impairment when educational attainment and intelligence are high, thus improving diagnostic accuracy.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is the most widespread cause of congenital infection. The effects of various viral strains and viral loads on the infection outcome have been under debate. To determine the distribution of gN variants in HCMV strains isolated from children with congenital or postnatal infection and to establish the relationship between the viral genotype, the viral load, and the sequelae. The study population included congenitally HCMV-infected newborns and children with postnatal or unproven congenital HCMV infection. The genotyping was performed by RFLP analysis of PCR-amplified fragments, and the viral load was measured by quantitative real-time PCR. Our results demonstrated that the HCMV genotypes gN3b, gN4b, and gN4c were prevalent in the patients examined. There were no differences in the distributions of gN genotypes in the congenitally and postnatally infected children. Multiple HCMV strains were detected in both groups of children. A significant association between the HCMV gN4 genotype and the incidence of neurological disorders was observed (p=0.045). Our results suggest that the detection of the gN2 or the gN4 genotype may be indicative of serious manifestations in children. In contrast, the gN3b and the gN1 genotypes represent less pathogenic HCMV strains. The HCMV load in urine was significantly higher in children with congenital infection compared with children with postnatal infection. No correlation was found between the viral load and the genotype. Our results suggest that the gN genotype may be a virological marker of symptomatic HCMV infection in newborns.
Management of blood coagulation-related diseases is currently limited by the inability to provide an adequate drug concentration in blood circulation for a long term. As a promising way to overcome this problem, the long-acting forms of these drugs have attracted many interests in recent years. In this study, chitosan-heparin nanoparticles were prepared as a polymeric delivery system intended for the prolonged intravenous delivery of heparin where the drug was used as both the therapeutic agent and a gel-forming counter-ion. The nanoparticle preparation method was optimized using a Taguchi orthogonal array. Critical formulation variables were optimized in this study in terms of their corresponding effects on the target response of particle size. Nanoparticles were characterized by the Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy and zeta potential. The size, polydispersity index, zeta potential and encapsulation efficiency for the optimized formulation were found to be 61.33 ± 1.53 nm, 0.06, +15.7 mv and 74.16 ± 1.27%, respectively. The sizes of the prepared drug-loaded nanoparticles were stable at least 1 week at room temperature and 3 months in refrigerator. The ex-vivo and in-vivo tests on the heparin-chitosan nanoparticles using activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) as the biological index were indicative of a smoother and longer elevation in aPTT in the presence of nanoparticulate drug.
We read with interest the article by Codd et al, " A systematic review of peripheral nerve injury following laparoscopic colorectal surgery"[1]. The authors conducted a systematic review of Medline and Embase. This resulted in 10 cases identified with peripheral nerve injury after laparoscopic colorectal surgery. These injuries were associated with a lengthy procedure and abduction of the arm. The authors concluded that such injuries are rare but the surgeon and theatre team must be aware of the risk of peripheral nerve injury when positioning for laparoscopic colorectal procedures. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Golgi antiapoptotic proteins (GAAPs) are highly conserved Golgi membrane proteins that inhibit apoptosis and promote Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. Given the role of Ca(2+) in controlling cell adhesion and motility, we hypothesized that human GAAP (hGAAP) might influence these events. In this paper, we present evidence that hGAAP increased cell adhesion, spreading, and migration in a manner that depended on the C-terminal domain of hGAAP. We show that hGAAP increased store-operated Ca(2+) entry and thereby the activity of calpain at newly forming protrusions. These hGAAP-dependent effects regulated focal adhesion dynamics and cell migration. Indeed, inhibition or knockdown of calpain 2 abrogated the effects of hGAAP on cell spreading and migration. Our data reveal that hGAAP is a novel regulator of focal adhesion dynamics, cell adhesion, and migration by controlling localized Ca(2+)-dependent activation of calpain.
The involvement of NF-κB in the regulation of teratogen-induced apoptosis has not been established yet. Therefore, we tried to assess the involvement of the p65 subunit of NF-κB in the embryonic response to the anti-cancer drug Doxorubicin (DOX). Thus, exposure of p65 knockout (p65(-/-)) or wild type (WT) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) to DOX resulted in a decrease in cell survival, culture density and cell proliferation, which was found to be more prominent in p65(-/-) MEFs. Those phenomena were accompanied by a DOX-induced increase in the proportion of apoptotic cells, which was demonstrated only in p65(-/-) cells and a G2/M arrest, which was found to be more prominent in WT cells. Furthermore, DOX-treated WT and p65(-/-) MEFs differed in their expression of various apoptosis-associated molecules, when the former demonstrated a decrease in the percentage of p65-positive and a more prominent decrease in the percentage of p53-positive cells, while a decreased percentage of IκBα-positive and a more prominent decrease in the percentage of bcl-2-positive cells was detected among the latter. The fact that the response of the cells to the teratogen was clearly p65-dependent implicates this molecule to be involved in the response of the embryonic cells to DOX.
Extracellular RNA (eRNA) released from injured cells promotes tissue permeability, thrombosis, and inflammation in vitro and in vivo, and RNase1 pretreatment can reduce all these effects. In this study, we investigated the role of the eRNA/RNase1 system in tumor progression and metastasis. Under quiescent and stimulatory conditions, tumor cells released much higher levels of endogenous extracellular RNA (eRNA) than nontumor cells. In glioblastomas, eRNA was detected at higher levels in tumors than nontumor tissue. eRNA induced tumor cells to adhere to and migrate through human cerebral microvascular endothelial cells (HCMEC/D3), in a manner requiring activation of VEGF signaling. In addition, eRNA liberated TNF-α from macrophages in a manner requiring activation of the TNF-α-converting enzyme TACE. Accordingly, supernatants derived from eRNA-treated macrophages enhanced tumor cell adhesion to HCMEC/D3. TNF-α release evoked by eRNA relied upon signaling activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and the NF-κB pathway. In subcutaneous xenograft models of human cancer, administration of RNase1 but not DNase decreased tumor volume and weight. Taken together, these results suggest that eRNA released from tumor cells has the capacity to promote tumor cell invasion through endothelial barriers by both direct and indirect mechanisms, including through a mechanism involving TNF-α release from tumor-infiltrating monocytes/macrophages. Our findings establish a crucial role for eRNA in driving tumor progression, and they suggest applications for extracellular RNase1 as an antiinvasive regimen for cancer treatment. Cancer Res; 73(16); 5080-9. ©2013 AACR.
Biofilms are ubiquitous and play an essential role in both environmental processes and hospital infections. Standard methods are not capable of quantifying biomass concentration in dilute suspensions. Furthermore, standard techniques cannot differentiate biomass composition. In this study, a user-friendly technique was developed for measuring biomass cell and polymer content in detached biofilms using a standard coulter counter. The method was demonstrated for an environmentally relevant strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Schroeter) Migula grown in a bioreactor and also for a medically relevant strain of P. aeruginosa (PAO1) grown on standard growth pegs. Results were compared and validated by standard assays, including EPA method 1684 for measuring biomass, microscopic direct counts, and a crystal violet staining assay. The minimum detection limit for the coulter counter method (0.07mg-biomass L(-1)) was significantly lower than the EPA method 1684 (1.9±0.4mg/L) and the crystal violet assay (1.1±0.2mgL(-1)). However, the coulter counter method is limited to dilute biomass samples (below 204±16mgL(-1)) due to clogging of the aperture tube. While biomass measurements are useful, the major advantage of the coulter counter method is the ability to directly determine EPS, cell, and aggregate fractions after mild chemical treatment. The rapid technique (4-5min per sample) was used to measure biomass fractions in dispersed P. aeruginosa (Schroeter) and PAO1 biofilms. This technique will be critical for understanding biofilm formation/dispersal.
Mpr1 (sigma1278b gene for proline-analog resistance 1), which was originally isolated as N-acetyltransferase detoxifying the proline analog l-azetidine-2-carboxylate, protects yeast cells from various oxidative stresses. Mpr1 mediates the l-proline and l-arginine metabolism by acetylating l-Δ(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate, leading to the l-arginine-dependent production of nitric oxide, which confers oxidative stress tolerance. Mpr1 belongs to the Gcn5-related N-acetyltransferase (GNAT) superfamily, but exhibits poor sequence homology with the GNAT enzymes and unique substrate specificity. Here, we present the X-ray crystal structure of Mpr1 and its complex with the substrate cis-4-hydroxy-l-proline at 1.9 and 2.3 Å resolution, respectively. Mpr1 is folded into α/β-structure with eight-stranded mixed β-sheets and six α-helices. The substrate binds to Asn135 and the backbone amide of Asn172 and Leu173, and the predicted acetyl-CoA-binding site is located near the backbone amide of Phe138 and the side chain of Asn178. Alanine substitution of Asn178, which can interact with the sulfur of acetyl-CoA, caused a large reduction in the apparent kcat value. The replacement of Asn135 led to a remarkable increase in the apparent Km value. These results indicate that Asn178 and Asn135 play an important role in catalysis and substrate recognition, respectively. Such a catalytic mechanism has not been reported in the GNAT proteins. Importantly, the amino acid substitutions in these residues increased the l-Δ(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate level in yeast cells exposed to heat stress, indicating that these residues are also crucial for its physiological functions. These studies provide some benefits of Mpr1 applications, such as the breeding of industrial yeasts and the development of antifungal drugs.
Avian seasonal timing is a life-history trait with important fitness consequences and which is currently under directional selection due to climate change. To predict micro-evolution in this trait, it is crucial to properly estimate its heritability. Heritabilities are often estimated from pedigreed wild populations. As these are observational data, it leaves the possibility that the resemblance between related individuals is not due to shared genes but to ontogenetic effects; when the environment for the offspring provided by early laying pairs differs from that by late pairs and the laying dates of these offspring when they reproduce themselves is affected by this environment, this may lead to inflated heritability estimates. Using simulation studies, we first tested whether and how much such an early environmental effect can inflate heritability estimates from animal models, and we showed that pedigree structure determines by how much early environmental effects inflate heritability estimates. We then used data from a wild population of great tits (Parus major) to compare laying dates of females born early in the season in first broods and from sisters born much later, in second broods. These birds are raised under very different environmental conditions but have the same genetic background. The laying dates of first and second brood offspring do not differ when they reproduce themselves, clearly showing that ontogenetic effects are very small and hence, family resemblance in timing is due to genes. This finding is essential for the interpretation of the heritabilities reported from wild populations and for predicting micro-evolution in response to climate change.
In this study a new and fast procedure was developed to determine trace 17β-estradiol (E2) concentrations using CdSe quantum dots (QDs) conjugation with bovine serum albumin (BSA)-E2. To increase the high efficiency of the method, the immunoassay design was restricted to an indirect competitive format. The E2 antigen and bioconjugate were incubated in a microtiter plate with an anti-E2 antibody and competition for antibody binding sites was established. The in situ bismuth-coated carbon electrodes were used for detecting the cadmium ions (Cd(2+)) released during the acid dissolution step. After optimization, the well-defined sharp anodic stripping voltammograms curves of the E2 concentration ranging from 50 to 1000 pg/mL was recorded, and the lowest detection limit was 50 pg/mL with 6% reproducibility and 7% repeatability. Finally, the assay was applied to tap water and wastewater samples. The detection limits were 52.56 ± 0.125 pg/mL for tap water and 51.42 ± 0.453 pg/mL for wastewater. These results show that the assay exhibited sensitive analytical performance in E2 detection with high sensitivity and accuracy with satisfactory results.
This study provides the first attempt to analyse the influence of ammonium supplements on sugar-cane juice fermentation and the flavour profile in a cachaça industrial process. The objective was to find a relationship between higher alcohol/ester content and the transcription levels of the main genes involved in production of these compounds under cachaça fermentation. Sugar-cane juice with a low amount of assimilable nitrogen (81 mg N/L), was further supplemented with mid-range or high concentrations of ammonium sulfate. Overall, higher alcohol production was reduced by ammonium supplementation, and this can be correlated with a general downregulation of genes encoding decarboxylases and dehydrogenases of the Ehrlich pathway. The production of acetate esters was enhanced by mid-range ammonium supplementation and the production of acyl esters by high ammonium supplementation. The acyl esters could be correlated with expression of alcohol acyl-transferase EEB1 and the acyl esterase IAH1.
Social inequalities in health persist in modern societies. The contribution of adverse work and employment conditions towards their explanation is analysed by two approaches, mediation and moderation. Yet the relative significance of each approach remains unclear in respective research. We set out to study this question by conducting a systematic literature review. We included all original papers based on prospective observational studies of employed cohorts that were published between January 1980 and October 2012 meeting our search criteria, by using major databases and by observing established quality criteria. 26 reports were included after quality assessment. 17 studies examined the mediation hypothesis and nine studies tested the moderation hypothesis. Moderate support was found for the mediation hypothesis where OR or HR of health according to socioeconomic position (SEP) were reduced in a majority of analyses after introducing work characteristics in multivariate models. Evidence in favour of the moderation hypothesis was found in some studies, demonstrating stronger effects of adverse work on health among people with low SEP. Despite some support in favour of the two hypotheses future research should aim at reducing the heterogeneity in defining and measuring core variables and at applying advanced statistical analyses. Policy recommendations would benefit from a higher degree of consistency of respective research evidence.
Small ruminant lentiviruses infect sheep and goats worldwide, causing chronic progressive diseases and relevant economic losses. Disease eradication and prevention is mostly based on serological testing. The goal of this research was to investigate the presence of the small ruminant lentiviruses (SRLVs) in Jordan and to characterize the serological response in sheep and goat populations. A panel of sera were collected from flocks located in Northern Jordan and Jordan Valley. The samples were tested using three ELISA assays: a commercially available ELISA based on p25 recombinant protein and transmembrane peptide derived from British maedi-visna virus (MVV) EV1 strain, an ELISA based on P16-P25 recombinant protein derived from two Italian strains representative of MVV- and caprine arthritis encephalitis virus (CAEV)-like SRLVs, and an ELISA based on SU5 peptide from the same two Italian isolates. The results indicate that both MVV- and CAEV-like strains are present in Jordan and that the majority of the viruses circulating among sheep and goat populations belong to the MVV-like genotype.
Serum samples from patients with chronic hepatitis C were subjected to metabolomics analysis to clarify the pretreatment characteristics of their metabolites and also changes in specific metabolites resulting from antiviral therapy with pegylated interferon plus ribavirin (PegIFN/RBV). The serum levels of low-molecular-weight metabolites in the twenty patients before and 24weeks after completion of PegIFN/RBV therapy were analyzed using capillary electrophoresis and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Ten patients showed a non-virological response (NVR) and 10 achieved a sustained virological response (SVR) with eradication of viremia. The pretreatment levels of tryptophan were significantly higher in the patients of SVR than in those of NVR (p=0.010). The area under the curve (AUC) value of tryptophan calculated from the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for discriminating SVR from NVR was 0.84 (95% confidential interval, 0.66-1.02, p=0.010). The ROC curve of multiple logistic regression model incorporating the pretreatment levels of tryptophan and γ-glutamate-arginine showed that the AUC value was highly significant (AUC=0.92, 95% confidential interval, 0.79-1.05, p=0.002). Twenty four weeks after completion of treatment, the levels of γ-glutamyl dipeptides, glutamic acid, 5-oxoproline, glucosamine and methionine sulfoxide were decreased, whereas those of 5-methoxy-3-indoleacetate, glutamine, kynurenine and lysine were increased significantly (p<0.05) in both the NVR and SVR patients. The pretreatment serum levels of certain metabolites including tryptophan are associated with the response to PegIFN/RBV therapy. PegIFN/RBV therapy can ameliorate the oxidative stress responsible for glutathione metabolism.
The effect of light quality on cell size and cell cycle, growth rate, productivity, photosynthetic efficiency and biomass composition of the marine prasinophyte Tetraselmis suecica F&M-M33 grown in 2-L flat panel photobioreactors illuminated with light emitting diodes (LEDs) of different colors was investigated. Biomass productivity and photosynthetic efficiency were comparable between white and red light, while under blue and green light productivity decreased to less than half and photosynthetic efficiency to about one third. Differences in cell size and number correlated with the cell cycle phase. Under red light cells were smaller and more motile. Chlorophyll content was strongly reduced with red and enhanced with blue light, while carotenoids and gross biomass composition were not affected by light quality. The eicosapentaenoic acid content increased under red light. Red light can substitute white light without affecting productivity of T. suecica F&M-M33, leading to smaller and more motile cells and increased eicosapentaenoic acid content. Red LEDs can thus be profitably used for the production of this microalga for aquaculture. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2013;9999: 1-9. © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
BAHA implants have been shown to be effective in certain forms of conductive hearing loss, but the presence of the titanium abutment is responsible for sometimes severe skin reactions. The objective of this study was to compare two operative techniques: skin flap, and full-thickness skin graft. Between January 2004 and January 2011, 72 patients were treated by BAHA implant and 32 of these patients (total of 41 implants) were included in the study. Two surgical techniques were used: full-thickness skin graft (n=21) and skin flap (n=20). Four types of skin complications were observed: necrosis, inflammation/infection, hypertrophic scar, and fixture loss due to inadequate osseointegration. Complications requiring surgical revision were observed in 20% of cases with the skin flap method and 38% of cases with the skin graft technique, with no significant difference between the two groups (P=0.31). The skin graft technique appears to be associated with a higher rate of major complications. The most common complication is hypertrophic scar. The apparently high complication rate in this series can be explained by a selection bias (exclusion of a large number of complication-free patients).
Data sets from ecological experiments can be difficult to analyze, due to lack of independence of experimental units and complex variance structures. In addition, information of interest may lie in complicated contrasts among treatments, rather than direct output from statistical tests. Here, we present a statistical framework for analyzing data sets containing non-independent experimental units and differences in variance among treatments (heteroscedasticity) and apply this framework to experimental data on interspecific competition among three tadpole species. Our framework involves three steps: (1) use a multilevel regression model to calculate coefficients of treatment effects on response variables; (2) combine coefficients to quantify the strength of competition (the target information of our experiment); and (3) use parametric bootstrapping to calculate significance of competition strengths. We repeated this framework using three multilevel regression models to analyze data at the level of individual tadpoles, at the replicate level, and at the replicate level accounting for heteroscedasticity. Comparing results shows the need to correctly specify the statistical model, with the model that accurately accounts for heteroscedasticity leading to different conclusions from the other two models. This approach gives a single, comprehensive analysis of experimental data that can be used to extract informative biological parameters in a statistically rigorous way.
Clinical guidelines are frequently used as a mechanism for implementing evidence-based practice. However research indicates that health professionals vary in the extent to which they adhere to these guidelines. This study aimed to study the perceptions of stakeholders and health professionals on the facilitators and barriers to implementing national stroke guidelines in Ireland. Qualitative interviews using focus groups were conducted with stakeholders (n=3) and multidisciplinary team members from hospitals involved in stroke care (n=7). All focus group interviews were semi-structured, using open-ended questions. Data was managed and analysed using NVivo 9 software. The main themes to emerge from the focus groups with stakeholders and hospital multidisciplinary teams were very similar in terms of topics discussed. These were resources, national stroke guidelines as a tool for change, characteristics of national stroke guidelines, advocacy at local level and community stroke care challenges. Facilitators perceived by stakeholders and health professionals included having dedicated resources, user-friendly guidelines relevant at local level and having supportive advocates on the ground. Barriers were inadequate resources, poor guideline characteristics and insufficient training and education. This study highlights health professionals' perspectives regarding many key concepts which may affect the implementation of stroke care guidelines. The introduction of stroke clinical guidelines at a national level is not sufficient to improve health care quality as they should be incorporated in a quality assurance cycle with education programmes and feedback from surveys of clinical practice.
Previous studies showed that fitter yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) that can grow by fermenting glucose in the presence of allyl alcohol, which is oxidized by alcohol dehydrogenase I (ADH1) to toxic acrolein, had mutations in the ADH1 gene that led to decreased ADH activity. These yeast may grow more slowly due to slower reduction of acetaldehyde and a higher NADH/NAD(+) ratio, which should decrease the oxidation of allyl alcohol. We determined steady-state kinetic constants for three yeast ADHs with new site-directed substitutions and examined the correlation between catalytic efficiency and growth on selective media of yeast expressing six different ADHs. The H15R substitution (a test for electrostatic effects) is on the surface of ADH and has small effects on the kinetics. The H44R substitution (affecting interactions with the coenzyme pyrophosphate) was previously shown to decrease affinity for coenzymes 2-4-fold and turnover numbers (V/Et) by 4-6-fold. The W82R substitution is distant from the active site, but decreases turnover numbers by 5-6-fold, perhaps by effects on protein dynamics. The E67Q substitution near the catalytic zinc was shown previously to increase the Michaelis constant for acetaldehyde and to decrease turnover for ethanol oxidation. The W54R substitution, in the substrate binding site, increases kinetic constants (Ks, by >10-fold) while decreasing turnover numbers by 2-7-fold. Growth of yeast expressing the different ADHs on YPD plates (yeast extract, peptone and dextrose) plus antimycin to require fermentation, was positively correlated with the log of catalytic efficiency for the sequential bi reaction (V1/KiaKb=KeqV2/KpKiq, varying over 4 orders of magnitude, adjusted for different levels of ADH expression) in the order: WT≈H15R>H44R>W82R>E67Q>W54R. Growth on YPD plus 10mM allyl alcohol was inversely correlated with catalytic efficiency. The fitter yeast are "bradytrophs" (slow growing) because the ADHs have decreased catalytic efficiency.
Completely resorbable composites are an attractive alternative for metallic bone-fracture fixation devices. However, failure of their interfacial integrity within aqueous environments, which can lead to a rapid loss of overall mechanical properties, has been reported in the literature. In this study coupling agents were investigated for phosphate glass fibre reinforced poly(lactic acid) composites. Three coupling agents with varying wettability were employed to improve initial mechanical properties and their retention in vitro via improvement of the interfacial bond between polymer matrix and fibres. Coupling agents were grafted onto the glass fibres by dip-coating in coupling agent solution at optimised concentrations. Three-aminopropyltriethoxy silane and sorbitol ended PLA oligomer treatments improved the initial flexural properties (27% strength with APS and 17% modulus via SPLA treatment) of the composites and 3-aminopropyltriethoxy silane and hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI) treatments also decreased the loss of flexural strength and modulus during degradation. HDI treated samples retained 57.2% and 64.7% of their initial strength and modulus, respectively compared to control where only 34% of initial strength and 52% of initial modulus was retained after 28 days of degradation in PBS solution. Initial improvements in flexural properties were associated with improved shear bond strength at the interface due to covalent bonding between the glass fibres and polymer matrix provided by the coupling agents. Delay in mechanical property loss with degradation was suggested to be due to the hydrophobicity at the interface, which could have hindered the interfacial integrity loss and consequently loss of mechanical integrity of the composites. All coupling agent treated and control composites were tested for cytocompatibility using a primary human osteoblast cell line. A comparable response to the control, in terms of cell adhesion, proliferation and differentiation was observed supporting the use of these agents within implantable devices.
BACKGROUND:Elbow tenderness and pain with resisted wrist extension are common manifestations of lateral epicondylar tendinopathy, also known as tennis elbow. Previous studies have suggested platelet-rich plasma (PRP) to be a safe and effective therapy for tennis elbow. PURPOSE:To evaluate the clinical value of tendon needling with PRP in patients with chronic tennis elbow compared with an active control group. STUDY DESIGN:Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1. METHODS:A total of 230 patients with chronic lateral epicondylar tendinopathy were treated at 12 centers over 5 years. All patients had at least 3 months of symptoms and had failed conventional therapy. There were no differences in patients randomized to receive PRP (n = 116) or active controls (n = 114). The PRP was prepared from venous whole blood at the point of care and contained both concentrated platelets and leukocytes. After receiving a local anesthetic, all patients had their extensor tendons needled with or without PRP. Patients and investigators remained blinded to the treatment group throughout the study. RESULTS:Patient outcomes were followed for up to 24 weeks. At 12 weeks (n = 192), the PRP-treated patients reported an improvement of 55.1% in their pain scores compared with 47.4% in the active control group (P = .094). At 24 weeks (n = 119), the PRP-treated patients reported an improvement of 71.5% in their pain scores compared with 56.1% in the control group (P = .027). The percentage of patients reporting significant elbow tenderness at 12 weeks was 37.4% in the PRP group versus 48.4% in the control group (P = .036). At 24 weeks, 29.1% of the PRP-treated patients reported significant elbow tenderness versus 54.0% in the control group (P < .001). Success rates for patients with 24 weeks of follow-up were 83.9% in the PRP group compared with 68.3% in the control group (P = .012). No significant complications occurred in either group. CONCLUSION:Treatment of chronic tennis elbow with leukocyte-enriched PRP is safe and results in clinically meaningful improvements compared with an active control group.
Abstract Context: Sulforaphane (SFN) is a natural compound that has been investigated as a chemopreventive agent. SFN has been shown to inhibit the activator-protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor and may be effective for inhibition of ultraviolet (UV) induced skin carcinogenesis. This study was designed to investigate the stability of SFN as a function of pH, temperature and in various solvents and formulations. Materials and methods: Stability was analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography. A potential lead formulation was identified and evaluated in vivo. Results: SFN was determined to undergo apparent first-order degradation kinetics for the conditions explored. It was observed that SFN undergoes base catalyzed degradation. Buffer species and solvent type impacts stability as well. SFN was found to be very sensitive to temperature with degradation rate changing by a factor of nearly 3.1 for every 10 °C change in temperature (at pH 4.0). SFN completely degraded after 30 days in a conventional pharmaceutical cream formulation. Improved stability was observed in organic formulation components. Stability studies were conducted on two nonaqueous topical formulations: a polyethylene glycol (PEG) ointment base and an organic oleaginous base. Conclusion: Topically applied SFN in the PEG base formulation significantly reduced AP-1 activation after UV stimulation in the skin of a transgenic mouse model, indicating that SFN in this formulation retains efficacy in vivo.